---
layout: posts
title: London Bootcamps - Makers Academy vs General Assembly
category: rambleramble
---

__Tl;dr: Both made an offer, I went with Makers because they're a bunch of friendly hipster nerds who focus on teaching you to do it right, not just to make it work.__

So I recently went through the interview processes for both [Makers Academy](http://www.makersacademy.com/) and [General Assembly](https://generalassemb.ly/education/web-development-immersive) to join their programming "bootcamps". These are the two main ones in London (although there are a fair number of smaller ones out there) and both have a fantastic reputation of taking people with only basic programming knowledge and turning them into solid junior developers. This post is a bit of a summary of how I found it, the differences between the two and why I made the decision to go with Makers.

Please note: This post is in regards to the November 2015 cohorts. Both programmes iterate on their content at an incredibly rapid rate (as they should) and no doubt will be very different to what is summarised here within a year or two.

## What they teach

On the face of it the languages taught "in class" make them both seem very similar. Ruby + JS + Related Frameworks. Makers Academy seem to sway slightly more towards Ruby and GA appeared to sway slightly towards JavaScript but this shouldn't make a huge amount of difference in the end.

The big differences seemed to come in what they taught about development methodologies. Both have daily stand-ups to cover what's been learnt, challenges faced and how to tackle the coming work but when it came to other methodologies such as TDD, pair programming and CI/CD they adopt very different stances: General Assembly "study" these topics as a section of the course but don't actually implement them constantly; Makers Academy get you to follow them from your very first day. As an ex-recruiter some of the biggest problems companies used to feedback to me with were the lack of experience or understanding of proper methodologies. Makers Academy definitely won out for me here.

## Who you're learning from

Both companies seem to have a large amount of people who have done the actual courses there themselves (always a good sign) although the impression I got at Makers is all the tutors are actively working as engineers at Makers and thus writing the challenges, course materials and surrounding content themselves, whereas with GA they bring in external developers on contract who then teach the materials.

## The companies themselves

General Assembly is an international behemoth even though they are only 5 years old. They've had their Series D funding round (another $70M), teach 15,000 students a year and have campuses in 14 different cities around the globe. They truly have a massive international reach and are well known pretty much everywhere.

Makers Academy is much smaller - it's based only in London (although they are now running a new remote course called Ronin which seems to have got off to a very strong start), they teach a couple hundred students each year and have received vastly less in the way of investment (as far as I can tell so far it's only a single seed round). They have a fantastic reputation in London but it's unlikely if you go off to another nation people will know who they are.

One thing I have to say is that GA felt very "sterile" and corporate (which I guess is to be expected in such a rapidly growing firm) whereas Makers had a much stronger and friendlier personality. GA seemed like it was there to teach you to develop, Makers to make sure you had a good time learning to develop (including such things as having a "Chief Joy Officer" on the staff, daily meditation and yoga, evening D&D, beanbags in lectures, table tennis and nerf guns - imagine the friendly Shoreditch hipster stereotype).

## How you learn

The big differences between the two courses in how you learn seem to relate to amount of time spent in "lectures" vs lab / self directed study work. Makers appeared to have one short lecture style session each day which would be followed by a large amount of lab style studying in pairs whereas GA seem to focus a lot on lecture style studies and then you'd break off to do a large amount of solo programming for their lab work.

Both were very clear about the amount of time it will be though - forget about having free weekends or evenings, you'll be spending 60-80 hours a week tap-tap-tapping on your keyboard.

## Where you're learning

For me this made a quite big difference - Makers Academy have their own space covering 3 floors which is completely closed off to the outside world, in contrast General Assembly are based in a large "hub" building with many other companies. For me I felt being only surrounded by people studying on the same course was definitely a bonus and it did feel that all the activity in the GA's shared spaces where you would be doing a lot of the work could become very distracting.

## The approach to "outboarding" - ie. finding you a job at the end!

Here I felt Makers are focused on getting you a job at the end (and ensuring you have the skills to represent them well) whereas General Assembly were focused on teaching you the materials and weren't that involved in the job hunt at the end. The reasons why are simple - Makers' business model only generates a profit when they place you (and charge a recruitment fee to whoever hires you) whereas GA's is all about generating the income from teaching students. I was informed that GA have recently set up an "outboarding team" but it does seem a lot newer and potentially doesn't have the number of connections in the London scene. 

As my entire point of joining a bootcamp is a career change and finding a new job, I felt Makers would probably be able to provide me with a better opportunity.

## The interview process

Both had a slightly different approach here. GA tested that you could learn basic front end skills by getting you to make a short site about yourself, I wrote a blog post as I went through this particular one which is available [here](http://www.michaellennox.me/devramble/2015/09/29/GA-admissions.html) and Makers made you study the Ruby resources available on [Codeacademy](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/ruby) and in [Chris Pine's book](https://pine.fm/LearnToProgram/) before giving you a short test in the interview to see how well you picked things up.

## Cost

Both have a "base" price of £8000 although Maker's does offer certain discounts if you either pay early or you're female.

## Start date

Well this was fairly simple, they now both start the courses on exactly the same day.

## To wrap it up

While I felt courses would definitely be a fantastic stepping stone into development, I went with Makers largely because of the dedicated space, the stronger personality of the company and the fact they focused on teaching TDD from day 1.