---
layout: posts
title: Week 4 at Makers Academy - Retroing (slightly) late
category: rambleramble
tag: makers
---

So this is a slightly late retrospection, I've unfortunately fallen a little behind on these! It's definitely time to pick it back up to ensure I can properly consolidate ideas. Well I guess there's one benefit! I can look back and rebuild all those thoughts I had once more!

So Week 4 at Makers was a bit of a rollercoaster, definitely the fastest and most complex one we've undertaken so far as it introduced the final concepts we required in order to actually build 'genuine' web apps.

We started off with the [bookmark_manager](https://github.com/michaellennox/bookmark_manager) which introduced us to the concepts of databases and allowed us to actually build an app which can support multiple users and persist data, unlike our previous week which was a bit of a mess and had to strugle with the horrors of global variables! For the weekend challenge we built [chitter](https://github.com/michaellennox/chitter-challenge), a basic twitter clone which was effectively just a repeat of the week's study, nothing too hard but enjoyable to actually ensure it was all nailed into our brains.

###Most Important Things I Learned:

* Databases - building on this concept lets us finally assemble 'genuine' web apps that we could deploy $
* Expanded our experience of functional testing with a project which focused almost exclusively on this

###Things I Struggled With The Most:

* Setup and configuration. Heroku and database setups were slightly slow to get a grasp on, not conceptu$

###Changes I Plan to Make Next Week:

* Well it's Christmas so... Enjoy some relaxation, food and drink
