---
layout: posts
title: Hello Node - Getting Started in Node Part 2
category: devramble
tag: makers
---

So in part 1 we got our node project up and running but it doesn't do anything yet! In this part 2 I'll aim to explain how the parts of this testing stack go together and we'll cover some basic routing and controller information for Express.

This is Part 2 of Hello Node.

[Part 1 can be found here](http://www.michaellennox.me/devramble/2016/01/13/hello-node.html)

## Our Very First Test

Tests are beautiful.

So for our first test, let's build a feature test using Selenium, Webdriverio, Mocha and Chai.

~~~
// Bob is a user of hello-node.
// Bob wants to be able to navigate to the hello node homepage
// And see the beautiful welcome message 'Hello Node!'
~~~

Our `wdio.conf.js` is set up to find tests within `./test/spec` so let's create a new directory and then a new feature test within that  directory. If you are following a different project structure, it can be configured to point somewhere else (and in a larger project you might want to isolate unittests from feature tests).

~~~
# while in the project root directory

$ mkdir -p test/specs/features
$ touch test/specs/features/welcomeFeature.js
~~~

Let's open up welcome feature and get cracking, the comments on each line are intended to provide a visual representation of what the code does, don't worry about inputting them.

{% highlight javascript %}
// within test/specs/features/welcomeFeature.js

// first off, we need to import Chai
var chai = require('chai');
// we then get access to the 'expect' assertion, you can also use 'should' or 'assert'
var expect = chai.expect;

// then let's start structuring our test with a 'describe' block from mocha,
// within this we can nest various blocks such as 'beforeEach' and 'afterEach' for setup/teardown
// and 'it' blocks to identify a particular test

describe('Homepage', function() {
  it('should give a welcome message of "Hello Node!"', function(done) {

    // here we are going to make use of selenium via the webdriverio javascript bindings

    // announce the client as browser
    browser

      // tell it to navigate to the homepage,
      // it automatically prepends the address in your wdio config
      .url('/')

      // get the text available on the page,
      // body can be replaced with any selector for more complex tests
      // then carry out a function on that text
      .getText('body', function(err, text) {

        // within here we can use chai's expect statement to tell mocha to verify something
        // note that mocha chains methods unlike many other test frameworks
        // (eg .to.include(), instead of .toInclude(), not.to.equal(), instead of .not.toEqual())

        expect(text).to.include('Hello Node!');

      })

      // finish the test with .call(done)
      .call(done);

  });
});
{% endhighlight %}

## Get everything up and running

Now we can run our test, boot up the selenium server, boot up the node server and then run our script for the testrunner. You will need 3 different terminals to do this!

~~~
# in one console boot selenium server
$ selenium-standalone start

# in another start the node server
$ npm start

# in the last one use the script which runs our tests
$ npm test
~~~

You should get an error something like this:

~~~
Running "webdriver:test" (webdriver) task

Homepage
  1) should give a welcome message of Hello Node!


0 passing (2.00s)
1 failing

1) should give a welcome message of Hello Node!:
expected 'Cannot GET /' to include 'Hello Node!'
running firefox
undefined: expected 'Cannot GET /' to include 'Hello Node!'




>>
Warning: Task "webdriver:test" failed. Use --force to continue.

Aborted due to warnings.
npm ERR! Test failed.  See above for more details.
~~~

If we break this slack trace down we can see that we cannot GET '/' and thus our test fails.

Now we have a test, we can move onto writing some actual express code.

## Building some basic routing logic in our app

Let's take this step by step, open up `app.js`.

{% highlight javascript %}
// within app.js
var express = require('express');
var app = express();

// within here we want to specify that sending a get request to '/' (our home)
// should respond with "Hello Node!"

// the syntax is app.METHOD('route', function to carry out() )

// eg for a get request using an anonymous function,
// req is the incoming request, res is what we send back

app.get('/', function(req, res) {
  res.send('Hello Node!');
});

app.listen(3000)
{% endhighlight %}

In more complex applications you will likely want to separate your controllers and your routing logic, but for now this is perfectly suitable. There are many methods that can be called on the response including `.send()` which sends the string, `.json()` which sends the specified json object, `.redirect()` which redirects to specified path and `.render()` which will render a specified template and have the capacity to send it information about what to render.

Now if we reboot our node server we can should be able to run our tests! (assuming you didn't shut down selenium, if you did, go reboot that too).

~~~
$ npm test

Running "webdriver:test" (webdriver) task

Homepage
  ✓ should give a welcome message of Hello Node! (111ms)


1 passing (2.00s)



Done, without errors.
~~~

Huzzah! It works. In the next blog post I'll try to cover building a basic CRUD application which includes the fun of jade templating and connecting to mongodb.
