---
layout: posts
title: Week 5 at Makers Academy - Hey Ho Javascript!
category: rambleramble
tag: makers
---

So this was the first week I've had at Makers which I unfortunately can't say was very exiting or introduced much in the way of new concepts.

Having done a bit of Javascript prior to coming along the intro to jQuery and Javascipt we had via [airport-challenge-js](https://github.com/michaellennox/airport-javascript) and [thermostat](https://github.com/michaellennox/thermostat) was rather basic and slightly boring. Saying that I appreciate that the majority who are on the course only had the chance to cover Ruby prior to starting and as such this is a very important step in building up an understanding of an alternate language.

The intro to AJAX was new for me though - and definitely something I'm looking forwards to making use of when we get the chance to build JSON APIs instead of just MVC applications.

Saying that, the weekend challenge was awesome. [bowling-challenge](https://github.com/michaellennox/bowling-challenge) was a very 'complex' application from a logic perspective compared to anything else we've built so far. Instead of just making use of tools to carry things out and understanding how those tools function we had to consider the actual logic behind a game of bowling (turns out it is a lot more complex than expected!). While the jQuery interface definitely needs a bit of a run over I'm very happy with the structure of the Javascript models in this.

###Most Important Things I Learned:

* TDD in JavaScript
* Building more complex business logic into a small scale application - bowling challenge was great

###Things I Struggled With The Most:

* Properly following 'good' principles in jQuery, it can often end up slightly messy

###Changes I Plan to Make Next Week:

* The fun of lab week! Looking forwards to playing with some alternate technology

Please add which project you'll be working on for lab week and who you'll be working with
Node - Bookmark Manager
Django - ToDo List

Group of 6 of us working together at playing with node
