---
layout: posts
title: Week 6 at Makers Academy - Lab Week, Django and Node
category: rambleramble
tag: makers
---

So... Lab week is down and it was pretty awesome! We spent the start of the week playing around with node and getting to grips with it's slightly different structure to a Sinatra application. Minimal packages definitely feel slightly odd compared with many ruby gems effectively doing everything you could ever wish for in a single box but do make sense.

We started out building a very basic version of [bookmark manager in node](https://github.com/michaellennox/bookmark-manager-node) which, while very basic compared to our original Ruby version was enjoyable to write and get our heads around the differences working with these technologies.

I also spent some time working on a [Django-todoList](https://github.com/michaellennox/todo-django) along with Harry Percival's fantastic [obey the testing goat](http://www.obeythetestinggoat.com/). While the actual application introduces very little new conceptually (although does let me learn a bit about Django, a framework which I think I already have a love hate relationship with) Harry Percival's teaching of TDD is exceptional and introduced me to a really exceptional way of viewing TDD in the relatively small amount of time I spent working on his book that I'll be able to take forward to whatever else I build in other languages and technologies! I also wheeled out my Rasp Pi and practiced a bit of deployment on it after getting an Ubtuntu server running 14.04 up and running.

All in all, lab week was a hell of a lot of fun and learning to build stuff with other technologies was a great experience and should speed up my learning curve in the future drastically.

###Most Important Things I Learned:

* Extensions to TDD/BDD. I spent part of the week working on Harry Percival's Obey the Testing Goat! and$
* Learning an alternate and slightly more fernikity technology in Node. It was great fun even if slightl$

###Things I Struggled With The Most:

* Getting used to node, it can be frustrating at times


###Changes I Plan to Make Next Week:

* Try and implement the TDD concepts covered in Testing Goat to future work.
